README.md, before:

# unnamed_versioning_tool

Simple semantic versioning for GitHub Actions and repositories that use
conventional commits.

What it does

This project calculates semantic-version bumps (major/minor/patch) from
conventional-commit style pull requests and can be used in a GitHub Actions
workflow to automatically determine the next release version.

Key features

- Infers semver bump from conventional commits
- Optional build metadata via workflow inputs
- Simple to integrate into CI workflows

## Usage (GitHub Actions)

Example workflow snippet that runs the action and exposes the computed version
as a job output:

```yaml
jobs:
  version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    outputs:
      version: ${{ steps.version.outputs.version }}
    steps:
      - name: Calculate version
        id: version
        uses: RonaldPhilipsen/unnamed_versioning_tool@v0.0.1
        with:
          # Optional: pass build metadata (e.g. commit SHA)
          build-metadata: ${{ github.sha }}
```

## Development

The project uses Node.js for tests/build. Useful scripts (from `package.json`):

- npm run build — build the distribution (ncc)
- npm test — run tests
- npm run lint — run ESLint

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please open issues or pull requests on the GitHub
repository. Follow the conventional commits format for PR titles so the tool can
infer versions correctly.

Commit message:

feat: add release-notes in markdown format (#7)
Co-authored-by: Ronald Philipsen <Mail@rphilipsen.nl>

README.md, after:

# unnamed_versioning_tool

Simple semantic versioning for GitHub Actions and repositories that use
conventional commits.

What it does

This project calculates semantic-version bumps (major/minor/patch) from
conventional-commit style pull requests and can be used in a GitHub Actions
workflow to automatically determine the next release version.

Key features

- Infers semver bump from conventional commits
- Optional build metadata via workflow inputs
- Simple to integrate into CI workflows

## Usage (GitHub Actions)

Example workflow snippet that runs the action and exposes the computed version
as a job output:

```yaml
jobs:
  version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    outputs:
      version: ${{ steps.version.outputs.version }}
    steps:
      - name: Calculate version
        id: version
        uses: RonaldPhilipsen/unnamed_versioning_tool@vX.Y.Z
        with:
          # Optional: pass build metadata (e.g. commit SHA)
          build-metadata: ${{ github.sha }}
```

Please note that running this action from a non-fixed version is _not_ supported

### Inputs

| Input            | Description                             | Required | Default               |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| `github-token`   | GitHub token for API access             | Yes      | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `build-metadata` | Build metadata to include in the semver | No       | ``                    |

### outputs

| Output               | Description                                                                                   | Example                                                                                       |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `release`            | Boolean indicating whether a new release should be created                                    | `true`                                                                                        |
| `release-notes`      | Generated release notes in markdown                                                           | See [example](https://github.com/RonaldPhilipsen/unnamed_versioning_tool/releases/tag/v1.0.3) |
| `release-notes-file` | Generated release notes in markdown, dumped to a file on disk, useful for large release notes |                                                                                               |
| `prerelease`         | Boolean indicating whether the created release is a prerelease                                | `false`                                                                                       |
| `tag`                | The semantic version in `tag` format,                                                         | `v1.2.3-rc0`                                                                                  |
| `version`            | The semantic version in `semver` format,                                                      | `1.2.3-rc.0`                                                                                  |
| `version-pep-440`    | The semantic version in `pep-440` format,                                                     | `1.2.3rc0`                                                                                    |

## Development

The project uses Node.js for tests/build. Useful scripts (from `package.json`):

- npm run build — build the distribution (ncc)
- npm test — run tests
- npm run lint — run ESLint

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please open issues or pull requests on the GitHub
repository. Follow the conventional commits format for PR titles so the tool can
infer versions correctly.
